So once you've hired a member of the data
science team and they show up on their
first day of work, it's important
that you have a system in place so
that they can quickly get into the flow.
This is a way to waste a lot of time if
there's not a good system for them to
get all of the support and the help that
they need to get up and running as quickly
as possible and really start helping
your organization as fast as they can.
So the onboarding process usually
starts with an initial meeting.
So this should be with
whoever their manager is.
And they should go over an overview of
their position, what the expectations are.
In particular, what are the projects
that you'd like to have them complete,
who they're supposed to interact with and
at what time scale.
And are you gonna start those
interactions, or do they need to go and
start those interactions themselves?
GIving them the contact information of
any of the people that they need to be
in contact with,
throughout the entire process.
And then,
establishing any sort of policies.
So, often, it makes a lot of
sense to set up policies for
how you're gonna interact
with the internal team.
How are you going to
communicate with them?
What's okay and what's not okay
in terms of feedback and review?
The same sort of thing for
external interactions.
So, how are you gonna
interact with other people?
Is that all gonna flow through
the management of the data science team?
Or is that gonna be embedding people
briefly in other teams during the week?
And how are they gonna
communicate with them?
All of that needs to be laid out,
ideally in a short,
initial meeting where they actually get
all that information sort of compressed.
It's really ideal if that information
could be stored somewhere internally
on a level that they can communicate with.
Whether it's a website, or some kind
of document that's distributed, so
that they actually can
always have a reference for
who they should be contacting,
how they should be acting, and so forth.
So, that's the ideal way to make sure
that they always have that information
available to them.
The next step is usually human resources,
so they need to get set up with payroll.
They need to get set up with benefits,
any kind of documentation they need.
So this isn't really part of
the data science process, but
it is always a step that needs to happen
in the onboarding process for people.
Then the next thing that needs
to happen is introductions.
And so
that person might have interviewed, and
you might have even be aware
that they're showing up.
But it's really good to have that
person be able to go around and
put a face to the name for all
the people within the data science team.
So this is ideal if you, as the manager,
can go and take them from place to place,
introduce them to all the data science
team, make sure they get to know them,
they have a few minutes to talk, and so,
that everybody knows who
the new member of the team is.
You also might want to introduce them
their external points of contact.
Whatever external units they'll be working
with, or collaborators they'll be working
with, make sure that you do
a direct introduction of them.
So that everyone knows the new person
is here, the new data scientist, or
data engineer,
who they're gonna be interacting with,
how to contact those people,
how you want that process to work.
If you sort of initiate that yourself,
then it makes it a little bit smoother for
them to know where to
go in the organization,
if that's all sort of outlined
right from the beginning.
Right from the get go.
Another thing that all data scientists or
data engineers will need is equipment and
communications.
So often they'll either have a computer,
or you need to get them a computer
associated with the activity of
what they're going to be doing.
Let them know what software is
available for them to install,
what their purchasing limits are in terms
of organizing how they can get software.
You also need to let them know how to
interact with your global infrastructure.
How do they do data polls?
What's their username?
How do they interact with sort
of the global infrastructure and
the hardware that you have?
Ideally, again, you have documentation for
this, whether it's a PDF or
some other documentation that you can give
them, share with them through the internal
communication channels,
that shows them, okay.
Here's where all the data is stored,
here's the kind of database we're using,
here's the way to pull
data out of that database.
Sort of tutorials and introductions,
so they can immediately get up and
running without having to go and ask
a hundred questions at the data engineer.
Okay, where is the data?
What's the data set stored under?
What's the sort of framework under
which we're storing all this stuff?
And then get them set up on
the communication channels that are useful
for you.
So some organizations like to just
communicate by email or through chat.
What if there's something like Slack,
where they communicate
with each other as a team.
And so it's important that you get
them set up and running on whatever
the communication channel is, the one that
your organization particularly focuses on.
And so, after you've got their equipment
set up and you've got them sort of ready
to go, the best thing to do
with any data scientist or
data engineer is to set them
up with an initial problem.
So obviously what you'd like is
that this person can come in and
immediately start having an impact, and
immediately identify all of the problems
your organization might need to have
solved, but that usually never happens.
Each organization is a little bit quirky.
They have particular problems that they
care about and that they don't care about.
And so the best way to get somebody up and
running immediately,
is to start them on a small, a finite,
concrete project right away.
So this might be, for a data scientist,
it might be an analysis that is
just a small analysis, that they can
work on just right away, that day.
They can already start asking questions,
and they can already start
interacting with people.
Ideally, it's a short duration project,
so that they can just get up to speed.
They can kind of get started on something,
they can get their feet wet.
It's the same sort of thing for
data engineers or data science managers.
You wanna give them a short,
concrete project that they
can use sort of a jump start.
So, obviously you're going to want
them to work on larger scale projects.
They might have long term projects that
you're going to want them to work on.
But if they get something under their
belt, right away, that's a solution
they can present, first of all,
it' gives them a lot of confidence.
Second of all, it's the best way.
The absolute best way to get them
integrated into a team is to have them
working on a project right away.
So, the first thing that you do,
is you give them that initial project,
along with all of the other, sort of,
documentation that you need.
And then, you turn them loose.